## The Real FizzBuzz Problem

2021 Jan 28

### What is the FizzBuzz problem?

FizzBuzz started out as a drinking game, but it's most commonly known today as a programming exercise for evaluating the skills of a new software developer during a job interview. The game goes as follows:

> As a group, take turns counting from 1 to 100. On your turn, say "Fizz" if the number is divisible by 3, say "Buzz" if the number is divisible by 5, and say "FizzBuzz" if the number is divisible by both 3 and 5. Otherwise, say the number. If you say the wrong thing on your turn, take a drink.

The programming exercise is to write a program that will print out the proper sequence of words and numbers for the FizzBuzz game from 1 to 100.

### What's the real problem?

There are a few issues with the FizzBuzz problem: it's too simple for there to be any meaningful differences in the solutions people come up with and it's too commonly used for it to really be a *new* problem for people to think through and solve. When the problem is introduced during a job interview, most candidates will have already heard about it and may even have a solution memorized. When discussing solutions to the problem, the differences are usually only syntactic - there really aren't any vastly different approaches to be taken.

To me, though, the *real* FizzBuzz problem is not that it's too simple or too commonly used - it's that the problem isn't being used by the interviewer in a way that actually achieves it's goal: the problem on it's own can't truly test a candidate's ability to do the job. In this blog post, I'd like to walk through the problem and suggest some more effective ways in which it could be used during an interview to evaluate a person's ability to do the real job of building software.

### A Quick Solution for Context

I'm going to provide a simple solution to the FizzBuzz problem using JavaScript. I'm not saying this is the best way to write it, I'm just providing one possible solution. Essentially, all you need to do is iterate over the numbers from 1 to 100, decide what the appropriate word is, and output that word somewhere:

```js
const fizzBuzz = () => {
  for (let i = 1; i <= 100; i++) {
    const isFizz = i % 3 === 0;
    const isBuzz = i % 5 === 0;

    if (isFizz && isBuzz) {
      console.log('FizzBuzz');
    } else if (isFizz) {
      console.log('Fizz');
    } else if (isBuzz) {
      console.log('Buzz');
    } else {
      console.log(`${i}`);
    }
  }
};

fizzBuzz();
```

In a job interview, the exercise is usually over once the candidate gets to this point. They've demonstrated that they know how to solve the problem and their code isn't awful. Too many interviewers stop here, though.

### A Better Evaluation

My issue with stopping at the first solution is that in the actual job of software development the first solution is rarely going to stand the test of time. Inevitably, requirements are going to change and new rules are going to be added. I think the technical challenge section of an interview needs to do something to simulate that so that the candidate can be evaluated on their ability to revisit a problem they've already solved and adapt their solution to changing requirements. This can also be a great opportunity for them to demonstrate to you how well their initial solution sets them up well for adapting easily to change. Here are some examples of things that could be changed:

- The start and end values
- The order of the values (count down instead of counting up)
- Add more words with different divisibility tests
- Add more combination rules with more complex boolean logic

In the example solution I provided, every piece of the problem is contained in a single function. This means that every change I listed would cause the whole function to be tweaked. That's usually fine for a problem this small, and that type of solution is pretty typical for someone who's new to software.